src/content/components/notice.mdx, before:

---
title: "Notice"
lastUpdate: 2024-09-03
version: 0.1
---

import Notice from "../../components/Notice.astro";

## Specs

<div class="prose">

| File Name              | class     | Source                                                                                    |
| ---------------------- | --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `component.notice.css` | `.notice` | [Github](https://github.com/minimaldesign/mCSS/blob/main/src/styles/component.notice.css) |

The `notice` component is useful to bring something to the attention of the reader/user, as well as provide feedback on user interaction.

| Available modifiers           | Style                         |
| ----------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| `.notice`                     | Default style. Base colors.   |
| `.notice` + `.notice-info`    | Information. Primary colors.  |
| `.notice` + `.notice-danger`  | Error/Danger. Reds.           |
| `.notice` + `.notice-warning` | Warning. Oranges.             |
| `.notice` + `.notice-confirm` | Confirmation/Success. Greens. |

When using the HTML component (Astro components are available on Github but not yet documented), you'll need to include the SVG icons "manually." All the icons are [available on Github](https://github.com/minimaldesign/mCSS/tree/main/src/assets/icons).

</div>

## Available styles

<ul class="docs_examples">
  <li>
    <Notice title="Default Notice">
      <p>This is the the default notice style, without a modifier class.</p>
    </Notice>
  </li>
  <li>
    <Notice title="Information" type="info">
      <p>Notice with the `.notice-info` modifier class.</p>
    </Notice>
  </li>
  <li>
    <Notice title="Something went wrong" type="danger">
      <p>Notice with the `.notice-danger` modifier class.</p>
    </Notice>
  </li>
  <li>
    <Notice title="Attention" type="warning">
      <p>Notice with the `.notice-warning` modifier class.</p>
    </Notice>
  </li>
  <li>
    <Notice title="Success" type="confirm">
      <p>Notice with the `.notice-confirm` modifier class.</p>
    </Notice>
  </li>
</ul>

## Examples

<ul class="docs_examples">
  <li>
    <Notice title="Default Notice">
      <p>This is the the default notice style, without a modifier class.</p>
    </Notice>

    ```html
    <aside class="notice">
      <div class="notice_title">
        <svg>[…]</svg>
        <strong>Default Notice</strong>
      </div>
      <p>This is the the default […].</p>
    </aside>
    ```

    **Astro component syntax:**

    ```astro
    <Notice title="Info Notice">
      <p>This is the the default […].</p>
    </Notice>
    ```

  </li>
  <li>
    <Notice title="Pro tip!" type="info">
      <p>Notice with the `.notice-info` modifier class.</p>
    </Notice>

    ```html
    <aside class="notice notice-info">
      <div class="notice_title">
        <svg>[…]</svg>
        <strong>Pro tip!</strong>
      </div>
      <p>Notice with the <code>.notice-info</code> modifier class.</p>
    </aside>
    ```

    **Astro component syntax:**

    ```astro
    <Notice title="Pro tip!" type="info">
      <p>Notice with the `.notice-info` modifier class.</p>
    </Notice>
    ```

  </li>
</ul>

Commit message:

Add link to Lucide icons in docs

src/content/components/notice.mdx, after:

---
title: "Notice"
lastUpdate: 2024-09-03
version: 0.1
---

import Notice from "../../components/Notice.astro";

## Specs

<div class="prose">

| File Name              | class     | Source                                                                                    |
| ---------------------- | --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `component.notice.css` | `.notice` | [Github](https://github.com/minimaldesign/mCSS/blob/main/src/styles/component.notice.css) |

The `notice` component is useful to bring something to the attention of the reader/user, as well as provide feedback on user interaction.

| Available modifiers           | Style                         |
| ----------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| `.notice`                     | Default style. Base colors.   |
| `.notice` + `.notice-info`    | Information. Primary colors.  |
| `.notice` + `.notice-danger`  | Error/Danger. Reds.           |
| `.notice` + `.notice-warning` | Warning. Oranges.             |
| `.notice` + `.notice-confirm` | Confirmation/Success. Greens. |

When using the HTML component (Astro components are available on Github but not yet documented), you'll need to include the SVG icons "manually." All the icons are [available on Github](https://github.com/minimaldesign/mCSS/tree/main/src/assets/icons). If you'd like to use different icons, [Lucide](https://lucide.dev/) is a great resource.

</div>

## Available styles

<ul class="docs_examples">
  <li>
    <Notice title="Default Notice">
      <p>This is the the default notice style, without a modifier class.</p>
    </Notice>
  </li>
  <li>
    <Notice title="Information" type="info">
      <p>Notice with the `.notice-info` modifier class.</p>
    </Notice>
  </li>
  <li>
    <Notice title="Something went wrong" type="danger">
      <p>Notice with the `.notice-danger` modifier class.</p>
    </Notice>
  </li>
  <li>
    <Notice title="Attention" type="warning">
      <p>Notice with the `.notice-warning` modifier class.</p>
    </Notice>
  </li>
  <li>
    <Notice title="Success" type="confirm">
      <p>Notice with the `.notice-confirm` modifier class.</p>
    </Notice>
  </li>
</ul>

## Examples

<ul class="docs_examples">
  <li>
    <Notice title="Default Notice">
      <p>This is the the default notice style, without a modifier class.</p>
    </Notice>

    ```html
    <aside class="notice">
      <div class="notice_title">
        <svg>[…]</svg>
        <strong>Default Notice</strong>
      </div>
      <p>This is the the default […].</p>
    </aside>
    ```

    **Astro component syntax:**

    ```astro
    <Notice title="Info Notice">
      <p>This is the the default […].</p>
    </Notice>
    ```

  </li>
  <li>
    <Notice title="Pro tip!" type="info">
      <p>Notice with the `.notice-info` modifier class.</p>
    </Notice>

    ```html
    <aside class="notice notice-info">
      <div class="notice_title">
        <svg>[…]</svg>
        <strong>Pro tip!</strong>
      </div>
      <p>Notice with the <code>.notice-info</code> modifier class.</p>
    </aside>
    ```

    **Astro component syntax:**

    ```astro
    <Notice title="Pro tip!" type="info">
      <p>Notice with the `.notice-info` modifier class.</p>
    </Notice>
    ```

  </li>
</ul>
